[poignant music playing]
[Charles] We have to have faith.
We have to believe.
[Caroline] I don't know
how much longer I can.
I don't know how much longer
I can believe.
-We stayed because we couldn't go back.
-Maybe you can't go back.
[Charles] Caroline. what does that mean?
-[Caroline] Mary!
-[Laura] Mary?
-[Charles] Mary?
-[Eliza] Caroline.
Caroline.
[music fades]
Eliza?
Oh. goodness.
Okay. let's get you up.
[Caroline exhales]
Oh.
Nothing a little cake and tea won't fix.
Isn't that what Mother always said?
[breathes deeply]
We're down to the last crumbs
of maple sugar.
Can you believe it?
Peter can't go a day
without something sweet.
-Now we'll have to rely on store-bought.
-What am I doing here?
You came to your senses.
[liquid pouring]
What do you mean?
[melancholy music playing]
You know you're better off without him.
You and the girls
and the baby.
I… I don't… [inhales sharply]
When did I…
[Charles] Caroline.
[Caroline exhales]
[breathes heavily]
[Charles] Caroline.
[Caroline] Hm.
[music fades]
-Hm.
-[Charles] You were talking in your sleep.
[water dripping]
[inhales] I'm fine.
You can't still be mad?
Try me.
You have to drink.
You always know best. don't you?
Your words. not mine.
-Where's Mary?
-She's cooler.
-[birds chirping]
-[Caroline sighs]
Laura's with her.
[sighs]
Good.
[exhales sleepily]
[tender music playing]
[shivering]
I'm so cold.
-And I'm all shivery.
-[Laura] That's good.
Pa says that means
the fever's coming down.
But my bones still hurt.
and my mouth is all scratchy.
Here you go.
You rest. little lamb.
You'll be better by morning.
[indistinct chatter]
[music fades]
-[door opens]
-[bell jingles]
[Emily] You look like
you haven't slept in days.
I haven't.
What's going on?
Intermittent fever.
It's everywhere all of a sudden.
So many newcomers are down.
and I'm already out of quinine.
-Has your shipment come in?
-I'm sorry.
[sighs in frustration]
I put in the order two weeks ago.
but it hasn't come.
I've got dozens more to see.
They're likely all suffering.
I done need that quinine.
Caleb. would you fetch my sandwich
from the back room?
[footsteps receding]
[door creaks]
I've never seen it so bad.
[door closes]
Folks get the chills.
and then their fever spikes.
and then the temperature drops down low.
and they think it's over.
and then it starts up again twice as bad.
-I might know where you can get some.
-Where?
Jemma James ordered
a whole mess of it a few months ago.
-Doubt she'll part with it though.
-Let me try.
May I?
[chuckles]
Sharp.
Now you're ready for battle.
[footsteps approaching]
Eat this.
Take care of yourself.
This town can't afford to lose you.
[inhales deeply]
I'll do my best.
[footsteps receding]
-[door opens]
-[bell jingles]
[horses snuffling]
For me?
Really?
People say coffee prevents a fever.
Can't hurt. right?
[spits]
[chuckles]
It tastes like burned dirt.
Well. I'm sorry we don't have any sugar.
Just pretend
it's Grandpa's maple lemonade.
Are you sure we don't need Dr. Tann?
[Charles] Don't worry.
Fevers always run their course.
When you and Mary were little.
you ran fevers all the time.
Burnin' up like little stovepipes.
Used to tell your ma. "Hey. Caroline.
we don't need wood tonight."
"We'll let the girls lay in the fireplace
and heat the whole house."
[Laura laughs]
[Charles] Ma said no.
You had to stay cozy in bed.
And Grandma tucked you in nice and tight.
[emotional music playing]
The Big Woods seem so far away now.
I promise. if their fevers get higher
and they stop drinking water.
that's when I'll ride out for Dr. Tann.
Why don't you and Jack
run down the creek. get some water?
Then I'll feed and water Pet and Patty.
[horses neighing]
[sighs]
[fiddle music playing]
[wind blowing]
[unsettling music playing]
[fiddle music continues]
[fiddle music grows louder]
You did some fine work here. Charlie.
Some real fine work.
George.
Could this mantle be any more perfect?
You'd think we were born-and-bred masons.
[George chuckles]
And to think.
you didn't want me to come west with you.
Turns out
Kansas was exactly what I needed.
[Laura] Pa?
[wind whooshes softly]
What's wrong?
[sniffs]
Help me into bed. Half Pint.
[pail clangs]
[Jack whines]
I just need to close my eyes
and rest a minute. I'll be fine.
[unsettling music continues]
[Charles moans softly]
[Charles groans]
[Jack whines]
[Laura] Don't worry. Jack.
He just needs to rest for a minute.
I should get to the chores.
[music fades]
[knocking]
Mrs. James. I'm glad to find you home.
-How are ya?
-[Jemma] Uh…
Very well. thank you.
What can I do for you. Dr. Tann?
Well. I'm just checking on folks.
And. uh. your family.
all healthy. I presume?
-All thriving. thank you.
-Well. I'm glad to hear it.
I'm sorry to report that it's not the same
for other families in the area.
Intermittent fever has taken hold
in a very bad way.
Dreadful disease.
I understand that you're in possession
of a healthy stock of quinine.
I do plan ahead. it's true.
Perhaps you'd be generous enough
to loan me what you can spare?
Just until the next shipment comes in.
of course.
I'm afraid I can't spare any of it.
I've saved that quinine for emergencies.
Oh. absolutely. I'd…
I'd say this qualifies.
especially for the new settlers
who have no experience
with this… with this type of sickness.
Family emergencies.
I'd be happy to purchase it from you.
-At least a down payment.
-It's not about the money.
Oh. no. of course not.
I appreciate everything that you're doing.
but I'm afraid I just can't help.
[Jemma gasps softly]
Without quinine.
people will die.
[tense music playing]
And it wouldn't be right
to allow my own to be listed among them.
[melancholy music playing]
[horse snorts]
[grunts. sighs]
[Caroline] Laura?
Mary. where are you?
[horse whinnies]
[exhales]
Laura?
[music continues]
Mary?
Oh. there you are.
Everyone's excited to see you tonight.
so I thought we'd find you
something to wear.
Where are the girls?
School. of course.
These dresses are worn to threads.
[sighs heavily]
What did he have you doing out there?
[Caroline inhales shakily]
I met Charles in that dress.
[Eliza gasps]
Do you remember this one?
You wore it at the Walton wedding.
[inhales sharply]
Robert Benton couldn't resist you
in this dress.
[inhales deeply] He was wealthy
and kind and dependable.
He certainly wouldn't have dragged you
to the end of the earth
while expecting a child.
[sighs]
You know this is for the best.
-I do.
-[Eliza] Here.
[unsettling music playing]
[gasps softly]
-You have to drink.
-[music ends]
[birds chirping]
[Laura] He's just resting a minute.
[Caroline exhales]
He's so hot.
Pa says you have to drink.
[groans]
[breathes shakily]
[sighs]
-What about you? How are you feeling?
-[Laura] I'm fine.
I've been doing chores.
Don't wear yourself out.
I won't. I promise.
[tender music playing]
[music continues]
[Jack whimpering]
[upbeat music playing]
That should do it.
[exhales]
[cup scrapes]
[music fades]
-[knocking on door]
-Come in!
Emily tells me you're out of quinine.
I'm looking for anything else
I can use to treat symptoms.
-Snakeroot. rhubarb. castor oil…
-[Lacey] What. uh... Let me help.
I have a stash back at the house.
You're welcome to it.
Quinine? How?
Someone's loss is our gain.
Do you want to ride out with me?
Lead the way.
[birds chirping]
[Laura] Pa.
time for a drink.
[Charles] Hm.
[breathes shakily]
[tense music playing]
Ma. wake up. It's time for a drink.
[Laura gasps]
Why are they so hot again?
Mary.
Mm.
[Mary grunts]
-Jack and I are going for help.
-What?
Ma and Pa are hot as fire.
and they won't drink any water.
-I have to saddle up Pet and get Dr. Tann.
-[Mary] But you can't.
-You've never ridden alone before.
-[Laura] It's fine. Pet knows the way.
I'll be back soon.
I promise.
[tense strings music playing]
[Jack whining]
Pet?
Patty?
Pet! Patty!
[Jack barking]
[music ends]
[hammering on wood]
[hammering continues]
[birds singing]
[hammering resumes]
[rustling]
You waiting on an engraved invitation?
[wood thuds]
[sighs]
[man grunts]
When do you plan
on setting out for the West?
Early spring.
Before the lake thaws.
Your brother won't stop
rambling on about it.
He spent every penny he had
on dime novels and a coonskin cap.
Thinks he's gonna be Davy Crockett.
Right.
About that…
Well. spit it out.
I can't take George with me.
Well. he'll be disappointed.
If that's your decision.
he's welcome to stay home with us.
-He can't stay here either.
-Oh. he can't. can't he?
[wood thuds]
He's not right in the head. Father.
You know he isn't. not since the war.
Don't be ridiculous.
He wears a tattered uniform
that's two sizes too small.
sees soldiers that aren't there.
He wakes up screaming every night.
All he needs is something
to keep himself occupied.
and you were gonna give him that.
I talked to some people about a place
in Pennsylvania. treats soldiers like him.
You talked to people about George?
-I wanna take him there before I set off.
-He's not sick!
He's a hero.
All heroes have scars.
but you wouldn't know
anything about that. would you?
He needs help from people
who know how to help him.
George is broken.
and someone needs to put him back...
[rustling]
[morose music playing]
[Charles] George!
George. wait!
George! George. come back! I'm sorry!
George!
[breathing heavily]
[music fades]
[birds chirping]
[Jack panting]
-[Jack barks]
-[horse whinnies]
[Jack barks]
-Sit. Stay.
-[Jack whimpers]
[knocking on door]
Hello? Is anyone home?
[chickens clucking]
[somber music playing]
Mrs. Mitchell?
Mr. Mitchell?
[kitten meowing]
[kittens continue meowing]
[White Sun in Osage] Is that you. Julia?
[in English] Julia…
[Laura] No.
It's me. It's Laura Ingalls.
[White Sun moans]
Who's with you?
[Laura] No one.
Just my dog Jack.
My family has the fever.
and our horses are missing.
[moans softly]
I was hoping Mr. Mitchell
could take me to get Dr. Tann.
William went out of town for work.
He won't be back for days. [shivering]
[White Sun moans]
Oh.
[Good Eagle in Osage] Mama?
I need more water.
[in English] I'll do it.
[Good Eagle grunts]
[White Sun grunts]
[Good Eagle gasping]
[Good Eagle gulping]
[moans]
[groans]
[water pouring]
[gulping]
[exhales]
I could keep going to town.
No. not alone.
-[Laura] I won't be alone. I'll have Jack.
-Hm.
I'm a fast runner. Don't worry.
[Good Eagle whimpers]
Do you know how
to get to the main road from here?
I think so.
[groans]
[poignant music playing]
Follow it east straight to town.
[breathing heavily]
Wave down anyone you see.
But don't leave the road for any reason.
Promise me?
I promise.
[breathing heavily]
[in Osage] God.
Help Laura on her journey.
That the enemy nor a creature
will harm her.
[White Sun gasps]
[music fades]
[in English] Caleb?
[door closes]
Where are you goin'
with ginger root and willow bark?
The Ingalls'.
They're late picking up their package.
and I'm… I'm afraid they got the fever.
[Emily] If they have.
there's nothing you can do.
They need quinine. We won't have any
till Dr. Tann and Lacey come back.
-I just wanna check on them.
-Caleb. I don't want you getting sick.
But Dr. Tann did say you can't catch
the fever from other people.
No one… no one knows how you catch it.
not even Dr. Tann.
And I won't have you taking the chance.
Dr. Tann and Lacey plan
to visit all the families west of town.
I'm sure the Ingalls
will be first on the list.
All right? Just have some faith. Caleb.
Yes. ma'am.
[horse whinnies]
[scoffs]
Okay. Finish sweeping up.
I'll make you something to eat.
[sweeping]
[hopeful music playing]
[Jack barking]
[Laura] Jack!
Jack.
Look.
Hello! Hello! Hello!
Please! We need help!
[Jack barking]
[music intensifies. calms]
Grandma?
[both laugh excitedly]
What are you doing in Kansas?
I missed my girls.
-[Laura] I missed you too.
-Oh…
-Everyone's sick with a fever.
-[Grandma] Hm.
-I have to get the doctor.
-Hm.
I'm all right. I'm just hot.
Well. come on. then. Let's get to town.
You can tell me everything on the way.
-How do you like living on the prairie?
-[Laura] I like it.
[Grandma] Hm.
I made you and Mary
a tea set for the playhouse.
You're not too old for tea sets. are you?
-We're not too old.
-[sighs in relief] Good.
[chuckles] Because I can't wait
to show you.
[sighs]
We should be there soon.
[Jack barks distantly]
-Quiet. Jack.
-[Jack barks distantly]
[Jack barking]
[Jack whining and barking]
[Jack continues barking]
[music crescendoes. fades]
[birds chirping]
Pa?
[poignant music playing]
[sniffs]
[Mary] Pa!
[Charles] George!
Hey. you don't have to go. You…
You don't have to do
anything you don't wanna do.
[breathes heavily]
[exhales]
[inhales shakily]
[gasps]
[inhales sharply. gasps]
[father] Why couldn't you
leave well enough alone?
[Charles] I wanted to help.
You always think you know best.
I… I'm sorry.
I'll never forgive you for this.
I'm sorry!
Please!
Father!
Father. come back!
I'm sorry!
[music builds]
[Mary] Pa?
[music fades]
Pa. wake up. Pa?
[Mary gasps]
[inhales shakily] Mary.
You went walking in your sleep?
[Mary sobs]
-I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
-[Mary continues sobbing]
Who were you talking to?
[Charles] No one.
It doesn't matter.
-[Mary sobs]
-[Charles breathes heavily]
[horse neighing]
[poignant music playing]
Dr. Tann!
[horses whinnying]
[Mary] He has the fever.
-We all have the fever.
-[Dr. Tann] Hey. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa.
Okay. All right. You're all right.
Drink this up. Drink it all up.
-[Dr. Tann] Here you go.
-[Lacey] That's it.
[Mary gasps]
-Aren't you a brave little bunny?
-Let's get you two back up to the house.
Is Laura with you?
Laura? Why would she be with me?
She rode off to get Dr. Tann
hours ago.
[Mary exhales]
[birds chirping]
[Jack barking]
[Jack whines. barks]
[Jack panting]
Where did Grandma go?
[Caleb] Hey. Good boy. Jack.
Good boy. All right.
Here. Here.
[Jack whines]
[Caleb] Here.
It's okay. Just here. Yeah.
Do you think you can stand?
Yeah. you think so? Okay.
[Caleb grunts]
All right.
Don't worry. I'll get you somewhere safe.
[Jack barking]
[music fades]
[groans]
[doorknob rattles]
[grunts. exhales]
-[door opens]
-[sighs]
[tense music playing]
I thought we agreed on the yellow.
I didn't want the yellow.
Don't be ridiculous.
Robert is expecting you at dinner.
You still have a chance
at that life. Caroline.
I didn't want that life.
Robert was dull and predictable.
He was safe.
I wanted something different.
Charles lied to you.
[inhales deeply]
He's overly optimistic and naive.
But he's also brilliant…
[hopeful music playing]
…and inventive
and driven by love
and hope and a sense of adventure.
And I always wanted that for my life.
I always imagined
I was that kind of person too.
He makes me feel whole. Eliza.
He makes me feel like myself.
You've never understood that.
This is what you want?
An uncertain life?
An uncertain life
is full of possibilities.
I want a life full of possibilities.
You're all alone out there.
I don't think we are.
[doorknob rattles]
[sighs]
[grunts]
Let me go home. Eliza.
I'm not the one keeping you here.
[ominous music playing]
[music fades]
Welcome back.
Charles is outside. um.
taking some fresh air.
Mary is resting.
and Laura is at the Mitchells' house.
Why? What… what is she doing there?
Well. she went looking for help.
and she fell ill near the homestead.
But Caleb found her and brought her back.
She's absolutely fine.
Dr. Tann said he's never seen
two convalescing girls have so much fun.
Broth. It'll take that taste
of quinine out of your mouth
and… put a little meat on your bones.
Thank you for taking care of us.
I… I hope you'll let me make it up to you.
Ah.
There's no need. It's my pleasure.
And. um. Mr. Edwards. is… is he well?
He had just a touch.
[birds chirping]
John was the one who rode
for the quinine a few weeks ago.
He used every last penny of his winnings.
He had a feeling
that people would be hurting.
And he cannot stand to see people hurting.
Please send him my gratitude.
I'm gonna go check on Mary.
You finish every drop.
[footsteps approaching]
[Caroline sighs]
I dreamt about Father and George.
everything that happened before we left.
the lake.
I believed so completely
I did the right thing.
-You were trying to help.
-But I didn't.
Now we're in limbo on this land.
We're alone.
We nearly died of the fever.
And I'm afraid
you'll never forgive me either.
[tender music playing]
What'd you mean
when you said you had a way out?
What was in that letter?
[Caroline] Nothing.
It doesn't matter.
I just need you to trust me from now on.
I need you to believe in me
the way I believe in you.
I need you to believe
I'm strong and capable.
I can handle whatever may come.
good or bad.
I need you to understand
I'm in this with you.
No more secrets.
[White Sun singing in Osage]
[singing continues]
[singing stops]
[chickens clucking]
[in English] I've never heard a song
like that.
It's a morning prayer.
thanking Wah'Kon-Tah. God.
for the past. the present. and the future.
[sighs] I haven't done it in a long time.
-Hm.
-Why not?
I lost my daughter
a year ago.
I'm sorry.
Was her name Julia?
Yes.
When I came into the house the other day.
you called me Julia.
Did I? [chuckles softly]
Good Eagle must miss her.
She doesn't talk about her.
That's my fault.
For a long time.
it made me sad to remember her.
even to hear her name.
But.
for the past few weeks.
the past few days especially.
I've been feeling her spirit with me.
when I see and hold her things.
when I hear Good Eagle
laugh and play with you
the way she used to laugh
and play with Julia.
Ma.
[both chuckle]
Pa wasn't feeling strong enough.
so I came to get you myself.
Couldn't wait another minute.
You ready to go home?
Okay. Run inside and get dressed.
[footsteps running]
Thank you for taking care of her.
[dishes rattling]
[water pouring]
[fire crackling]
[dishes clinking]
[breathes deeply]
You have a lovely home.
[sighs softly]
[White Sun] I was lucky
to have teachers at the mission
that encouraged my interests
in language and literature.
Laura tells me you're a teacher.
-Yes. before I was married.
-[White Sun] Hm.
Now I'm just teaching the girls
at home until there's a school.
I'm not a very patient teacher.
I think it would be a good idea
for Good Eagle to learn with other girls.
if you're still willing.
There's more to education than books.
I'd like that.
[Laura and Good Eagle giggling]
[Laura and Good Eagle laughing]
[Caroline chuckles softly]
You should get plenty of rest.
The fever can be very hard
on both you and the baby.
[poignant music playing]
[sighs]
[Jack panting]
[footsteps approaching]
How are you feeling?
Much better.
Thank you.
I. uh. I…
I heard you saved your pa. [chuckles]
I heard you saved my sister.
Uh. that was. uh… that was Jack.
Well. thanks all the same.
Friends look out for each other.
-[Laura] Caleb!
-[footsteps approaching]
Caleb!
[Jack barking]
[both laugh]
Hope you know how proud we are of you.
[music fades]
Plenty of grown-ups
wouldn't have been that brave.
I didn't find help though.
And Pet and Patty are gone.
[dishes clinking]
I must've left the stable open
when I fed them.
Don't worry.
They'll come back once they get
the rambling out of their systems.
[fire crackling]
I saw Grandma on the prairie.
She scooped me up in her arms
and told me about the fox
and the hens and the honeybees.
She smelled like violets.
I know I was dreaming.
I just miss her.
I miss her too.
[Laura] Everybody came to help us.
just like the Big Woods.
I guess that's true.
Should we have some music?
[footsteps approaching]
This is Grandpa's favorite hymn.
-Do you remember the words?
-I remember.
♪ Life let us cherish ♪
♪ While yet the taper glows ♪
♪ And the fresh flower ♪
♪ Pluck ere it close ♪
♪ Why are ye fond of toil and care? ♪
♪ Why choose the rankling thorn to wear? ♪
♪ And heedless by the lily stray ♪
♪ Which blossoms in our way ♪
♪ Life let us cherish ♪
♪ While yet the taper glows ♪
♪ And the fresh flower ♪
♪ Pluck ere it close ♪
[song ends]
[closing theme music playing]
[music ends]